Enable Wifi On/Off button on Netgear WNDR3800 in Gargoyle router firmware

Recently, I upgraded my home router's firmware to Gargoyle instead of the Openwrt before. However, after the installation process, I surprisedly found that the Wifi On/Off button stopped working. This button is very convenient for me to turn wireless function off and on before and after the night sleep. I can't lose it.

1. Remote login your router via ssh.

        $ ssh root@x.x.x.x

2. Open and edit `/etc/hotplug.d/button/00-button` file, add the following line shown below. You have to be sure that the line is exactly added before the last brace.

            [ "$ACTION" = "$action" -a "$BUTTON" = "$button" -a -n "$handler" ] && {
                [ -z "$min" -o -z "$max" ] && eval $handler
                [ -n "$min" -a -n "$max" ] && {
                    [ $min -le $SEEN -a $max -ge $SEEN ] && eval $handler 
                }
            }
            # Add the following line here.
            logger the button was $BUTTON and the action was $ACTION
        }

3. Press the Wifi On/Off button on the front panel, then execute the following command to check which label this button is used.

        # logread

    At the end of what this command dumped, you could find something like:

        user.notice.root: the button was XXX and the action was pressed/released

    XXX is the label of the button you just pressed.

    For my WNDR3800, it should be BTN_2.

4. Create a new shell scrip `/sbin/wifitoggle`. Append the following content to it.

        #!/bin/sh

        STATUS=`wifi status | grep -m 1 up | sed -e 's/^[ \t]*//' -e 's/"up": //'`

        if [ "$STATUS" == "true," ]; then
           wifi down
           logger Wifi button pressed, wifi going down
        else
           wifi up
           logger Wifi button pressed, wifi going up
        fi

    This simple shell script will toggle the wireless function on and off by using the `wifi command`.

5. Grant the execute privilege to the script:

        # chmod a+x /sbin/wifitoggle

6. Test it!

---

## ¶ The end

